Data structures are the way we are able to store and retrieve data. 
You’re already familiar with Python lists and dictionaries, 
so you know that lists and arrays are sequential with data accessed 
by index while dictionaries and objects use a named key to store and retrieve information. 

Data structures handle four main functions for us: 
1. Inputting is largely concerned with how the data is received. 
   What kind of information can be included? Will the new data 
   be added to the beginning, end, or somewhere in the middle of 
   the existing data? Does an existing point of data need to 
   be updated or destroyed? 

2. Processing is about how data is manipulated in the data structure. 
   This can occur concurrently or as a result of other processes that 
   data structures handle. How does existing data that has been stored 
   need to change to accommodate new, updated, or removed data? 

3. Maintaining is focused on how the data is organized within the structure. 
   Which relationships need to be maintained between pieces of data? 
   How much memory must the system reserve (allocate) to accommodate the data?

4. Retrieving is devoted to finding and returning the data that is stored in the structure. 
   How can we access that information again? What steps does the data structure need 
   to take to get the information back to us?

What data structure should I choose? 
What is the intended purpose for the data? Do any data structures 
have built-in functionality that is ideally suited for this purpose? 
Do you want to search, sort, or iterate data in a way in which certain data 
structures would be better suited than others?
Do you want or need control over how memory is set aside to store your data? 
Data structures that use static memory allocation (e.g., stacks or arrays) 
will manage memory for you and assume a fixed amount of memory upon instantiation 
with a cap on how much data may be added. Data structures that utilize dynamic 
memory allocation (e.g., heaps or linked lists) allow you to allocate and reallocate 
memory within the life of the program. While memory allocation is not something that 
you’ll need to consider in languages like Python or Javascript (these languages will 
manage memory for you, regardless of which data structure you use), it is something 
to bear in mind when working in other languages like C.
How long will it take different data structures to accomplish various tasks relative 
to other data structures? Technically, two data structures may both be able 
to accomplish the same task for you, but one may be quite a bit faster. 
This consideration, known as runtime, will be covered further in-depth when 
you explore all the nifty tricks of asymptotic notation.

Algorithms 
Simply put, algorithms are instructions that the computer 
follows to carry out tasks. There are many, many types of algorithms, 
but some common ones are: 
-- Sorting algorithms 
-- Search algorithms 
-- Divide and conquer algorithms 
-- Greedy algorithms 
-- Brute force algorithms 

How are algorithms used? 
Algorithms are used to manipulate and process data. 
Data structures are useful in maintaining and storing data, 
but algorithms are what actually utilize that data.
